Champorado:1-cup-Brown Rice- ;4-cups-Water- ;1/4-cup-Cocoa Powder- ;1/4-cup-Coconut Milk- ;1-tbsp-Brown Sugar- :Rinse rice. Combine with water in a medium saucepan. Bring to a boil, cover and reduce heat. Simmer for about 40 minutes, stirring occasionally. (Brown rice may need 10-15 minutes more to soften completely.);When rice is soft, add cocoa powder, coconut milk and sweetener. Whisk to combine, then cover and simmer gently for 5 minutes.;If needed, stir in a small amount of water to thin, as this dish should be slightly more watery than rice pudding. Serve warm, or transfer to small bowls and chill.:Main Dish; Breakfast:Low Sodium;Vegetarian:4:50 minutes:Filipino:228
Tortang Talong:3-pieces-Eggplants- ;2-pieces-Eggs- ; - -Salt-to taste; - -Black pepper-to taste;2-tbsp-Olive oil- :With a knife or fork, prick the eggplant. Lay eggplant on a hot skillet until slightly softened and the skin is charred. Allow to cool to the touch. Alternatively, pierce each eggplant all around with a fork. Microwave for 5 minutes until soft.;Peel skin.;Using a fork, flatten the eggplant but leave the stem on.;Heat oil in skillet;In a shallow bowl, beat eggs, salt, and pepper with a fork. Holding the stem of the eggplant, dip into the egg mixture and lay onto the skillet.;Cook 2-3 minutes on each side, or until golden brown. Repeat with remaining eggplants.:Main Dish;Vegetables:Low Sodium; Low Sugar:3:40 minutes:Filipino:142
Chicken Adobo:2-tbsp-Vegetable oil- ;3-pounds-Chicken-cut into pieces;1-piece-Onion-quartered and sliced;2-cloves-Garlic-minced;2/3-cup-Soy sauce- ;1/3-cup-White vinegar- ;1-tbsp-Garlic powder- ;2-tsp-Black pepper- ;1-piece-Bay leaf- :Heat vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Cook chicken pieces until golden brown, 2 to 3 minutes per side. Transfer chicken to a plate and set aside.;Add onion and garlic to the skillet; cook until softened and brown, about 6 minutes.;Pour in soy sauce and vinegar and season with garlic powder, black pepper, and bay leaf.;Return chicken to pan, increase heat to high, and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to medium-low, cover, and simmer until chicken is tender and cooked through, 35 to 40 minutes.:Main Dish;Chicken:Low Sugar;High Protein:6:65 minutes:Filipino:361
Leche Flan:1-cup-Sugar- ;3/4-cup-Water- ;1-can-Evaporated milk-13 oz;1-can-Condensed milk-13 oz;12-pieces-Egg yolks- ;1-tbsp-Vanilla extract- :Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).;Combine sugar and water in a saucepan over medium-high heat. Bring to a boil without stirring to avoid the mixture crystallizing. Continue to boil, swirling the pan occasionally, until sugar syrup begins to brown, 7 to 10 minutes. Reduce the heat to medium low and watch the color. Once the caramel is a deep brown, immediately pour it into a flan mold. Carefully tilt the mold to make sure the whole bottom surface is covered.;Combine evaporated milk, condensed milk, egg yolks, and vanilla extract in a large bowl. Stir lightly to prevent bubbles or foam from forming. Strain batter slowly into the caramel-lined flan mold. Cover with aluminum foil.;Place a baking dish large enough to hold the flan mold on the oven rack. Set the covered flan in the baking dish and add enough hot water to come halfway up the side of the mold.;Bake in the preheated oven until firm, about 1 hour. Carefully remove the flan mold from the oven. Let cool, about 30 minutes. Run a paring knife around the edges of the flan. Cover the mold with a rimmed platter and carefully flip it over to release the flan from the mold for serving.:Dessert:Low Sodium:8:110 minutes:Filipino:387
Pork Dumplings:100-pieces-Wonton wrappers-3.5 inch square;1 and 3/4-pounds-Ground pork- ;1-tbsp-Ginger-minced;4-cloves-Garlic-minced;2-tbsp-Green onion-thinly sliced;4-tbsp-Soy sauce- ;3-tbsp-Sesame oil- ;1-piece-Egg-beaten;5-cups-Chinese cabbage-finely shredded:In a large bowl, combine the pork, ginger, garlic, green onion, soy sauce, sesame oil, egg and cabbage. Stir until well mixed.;Place 1 heaping teaspoon of pork filling onto each wonton skin. Moisten edges with water and fold edges over to form a triangle shape. Roll edges slightly to seal in filling. Set dumplings aside on a lightly floured surface until ready to cook.;Arrange dumplings in a covered bamboo or metal steamer so they don't touch to prevent them from sticking together; steam for 15 minutes, or until pork is cooked through.;Serve hot and enjoy!:Appetizers;Pork:Low Sodium;Low Sugar:10:60 minutes:Chinese:752
Chinese Pancakes:1/4-tsp-Salt- ;3/4-cup-Water- ;1-cup-Flour- ;1/4-tsp-Vegetable oil- ;1/4-cup-Flour- ;1-tbsp-Vegetable oil- ;1-tbsp-Seasme oil- ;1/2-cup-Green onion-finely chopped;1-tbsp-Vegetable oil- :Dissolve salt in warm water, and mix in 1 cup of flour to make a soft dough. Turn the dough out onto a well-floured work surface, and knead until slightly springy, about 5 minutes. If the dough is sticky, knead in 1/4 teaspoon of vegetable oil. Divide the dough into 8 equal-size pieces, and keep the pieces covered with a cloth.;In a bowl, mix 1/4 cup of flour with 1 tablespoon vegetable oil to make a mixture like fine crumbs;On a floured work surface, roll a piece of dough out into a thin square about 5x7 inches in size, brush the dough with toasted sesame oil, and sprinkle lightly with about 1 1/2 teaspoon of the flour-oil mixture. Sprinkle about 1 tablespoon of chopped green onion onto the dough, and spread the onion out evenly. Starting with a long end, roll the dough up into a rope shape, and pinch the seam and the ends closed. Roll the rope shape into a flat spiral, and press lightly with your hands to compact the spiral and keep it from unrolling.;Place the spiral down onto the floured work surface, and gently roll it out into a pancake with the onions folded inside, turning the pancake over often as you roll it out. Roll gently and turn often to avoid making holes in the pancakes. Finished pancakes should be about 5 inches in diameter. Repeat with the rest of the dough pieces, making 8 onion pancakes.;Heat a non-stick skillet over medium heat, and brush with vegetable oil. Pan-fry each pancake in the hot skillet until golden brown on both sides, about 5 minutes per side. Cut into wedges and serve warm.:Appetizers;Snacks:Low Sodium;Low Sugar:8:70 minutes:Chinese:120
Moo Shu Chicken:6-tbsp-Water- ;3-tsp-Sesame oil- ;2-tsp-Cornstarch- ;1-pound-Chicken breast-cut into thin strips;2-tbsp-Hoisin sauce- ;2-tbsp-Oyster sauce- ;2-tsp-Soy sauce- ;2-tsp-Vegetable oil- ;2-pieces-Eggs-beaten;3-cups-Cabbage-shredded;1-can-Sliced shiitake mushroos-drained;2-cloves-Garlic-minced;1-tbsp-Sherry- ;3-pieces-Green onions- :Whisk 2 tablespoons water, 2 teaspoons sesame oil, and cornstarch together in a large bowl. Add chicken, toss to coat, and set aside.;Combine remaining 4 tablespoons water and 1 teaspoon sesame oil in a separate bowl. Whisk in hoisin sauce, oyster sauce, and soy sauce until well combined; set sauce aside.;Heat 1 teaspoon oil in a skillet over medium heat. Add eggs and cook for 3 minutes.Flip and cook until firm and set, about 3 minutes more. Transfer to a cutting board and slice into thin strips.;Add marinated chicken to the skillet and cook over medium-high heat for 6 minutes. Flip and cook until golden brown on the outside and the juices run clear, about 6 minutes more. Transfer to a plate.;Heat remaining 1 teaspoon oil in the skillet over medium-high heat. Add cabbage, shiitake mushrooms, garlic, and sherry. Cook until cabbage starts to wilt, about 2 minutes. Add chicken, sliced egg, and reserved sauce to the skillet.Cook, stirring occasionally, until sauce has thickened, about 5 minutes. Toss in green onions and serve immediately.:Main Dish;Chicken:High Protein;Low Sugar:4:50 minutes:Chinese:319
Honey Walnut Shrimp:1-cup-Water- ;2/3-cup-White sugar- ;1/2-cup-Walnuts- ;4-pieces-Egg whites- ;2/3-cup-Mochiko- ;1-cup-Vegetable oil- ;1-pound-Shrimp-peeled and deveined;1/4-cup-Mayonnaise- ;2-tbsp-Honey- ;1-tbsp-Condensed milk- :Stir together water and sugar in a small saucepan over high heat. Bring to a boil and add walnuts. Boil for 2 minutes, then drain and place walnuts on a cookie sheet to dry.;Whip egg whites in a medium bowl until foamy. Stir in mochiko until it has a pasty consistency.;Heat oil in a heavy deep skillet over medium-high heat.;Dip shrimp in mochiko batter, then fry in batches in hot oil until golden brown, about 5 minutes. Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on paper towels.;Stir together mayonnaise, honey, and sweetened condensed milk in a medium serving bowl. Add fried shrimp and toss to coat with sauce. Sprinkle candied walnuts on top and serve.:Main Dish;Seafood:Low Sodium;Low Sugar;High Protein:4:35 minutes:Chinese:605
Beef Bulgogi:5-tbsp-Soy sauce- ;1/4-cup-Green onion-chopped;2 and 1/2-tbsp-White sugar- ;2-tbsp-Garlic-minced;2-tbsp-Sesame seeds- ;2-tbsp-Sesame oil- ;1/2-tsp-Ground black pepper- ;1-pound-Flank steak-thinly sliced:Gather all ingredients.;Whisk soy sauce, green onion, sugar, garlic, sesame seeds, sesame oil, and pepper together in a bowl.;Place flank steak slices in a shallow dish. Pour marinade over top. Cover and refrigerate for at least 1 hour or overnight.;Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat, and lightly oil the grate.;Quickly grill flank steak slices on the preheated grill until slightly charred and cooked through, 1 to 2 minutes per side.;Serve hot and enjoy!:Beef;Main Dish:Low Sugar;Low Sodium:4:75 minutes:Korean:232
Pork Sinigang:10-cups-Water- ;1-pound-Pork-cut into pieces;1-piece-Onion-chopped;2-piece-Tomato-quartered;1/2-package-Sinigang Soup Base-1.41 oz;1-piece-Sweet Pepper-quartered;1-cup-Okra-whole;1-piece-Eggplant-cubed;1-bunch-Spinach-chopped:Place water, pork, and onion in a large soup pot. Bring to a boil. Cook for 10 minutes. Regularly skim the top to keep soup clear.;Add tomatoes and soup base. Boil until meat and tomatoes are tender, approximately 30 minutes.;Add pepper, okra, and eggplant, cook 5 more minutes.;Add spinach. Turn off heat and stir to combine.:Pork;Main Dish:Dairy Free;Low Sugar:8:55 minutes:Filipino:156
